“We’re all familiar with Google’s machine learning algorithms. You search for ‘blue trousers’ and suddenly everywhere you go after that, you’re seeing little adverts 

for blue trousers and other items to buy. Marketers know how to mark up data so it can be used for marketing.”

Several years ago, large management consulting firms began describing data as the “new oil”—a magically renewable and seemingly inexhaustible source of fuel for 

spectacular economic growth. The business media rapidly picked up on the idea, and reported breathlessly about the potential for data to generate untold riches for 

those wise enough to harness its awesome power.
At the same time, another story was unfolding. That story wasn’t about a few smart guys getting rich. It was about people using data to improve lives and make the 

world a better place.



Using ML/AI algorithms of Deep learning to build Models that can see, hear & predict:
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Transportation : https://vimeo.com/192179726
Tesla Self-Driving: The concept of self-driving car uses the ML/AI algorithms called Deep learning to create Computer Vision and hearing where data in the form of images/sounds are continuosly fed to the model by image/sound sensors and instructions are relayed by the system that detects the patterns in the incoming feed and responds to it. All Tesla vehicles produced have the hardware needed for full self-driving capability at a safety level substantially greater than that of a human driver.

Retail : AmazonGo Video
Amazon Go is a new kind of store with no checkout required. We created the world’s most advanced shopping technology so you never have to wait in line. With our Just 

Walk Out Shopping experience, simply use the Amazon Go app to enter the store, take the products you want, and go! No lines, no checkout. (No, seriously.)
Our checkout-free shopping experience is made possible by the same types of technologies used in self-driving cars: computer vision, sensor fusion, and deep learning. 

Our Just Walk Out Technology automatically detects when products are taken from or returned to the shelves and keeps track of them in a virtual cart. When you’re done 

shopping, you can just leave the store. Shortly after, we’ll charge your Amazon account and send you a receipt.

General Purpose : 
Google DeepMind(AlphaGo) : In October 2015, a computer Go program called AlphaGo, powered by DeepMind, beat the European Go (Game) champion Fan Hui, a professional, five to zero. This is the first time an artificial intelligence (AI) defeated a professional player.Previously, computers were only known to have played Go at "amateur" level. Go is a game considered much more difficult for computers to win compared to other games like chess, due to the much larger number of possibilities, making it prohibitively difficult for traditional AI methods.



Using ML/AI algorithms of Deep learning to build Models that can read, understand & predict:
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

HealthCare : 
IBM Watson Discovery : Science is saturated with data. Watson Health solutions can harness this information to enhance patient care and help accelerate scientific 

breakthroughs. By making connections that may not have been previously considered, Watson can generate new insights that expedite the process of matching subjects to 

clinical studies, identify promising targets for research, and encourage discovery.

Social good: https://www.oreilly.com/ideas/data-and-social-good
(DOHMH) : When the New York City Department of Health and Mental Hygiene (DOHMH) realized that restaurant reviews posted on Yelp could be a source of valuable 

information in the ongoing battle to prevent foodborne illnesses, the department reached out to Yelp and to data scientists at Columbia University for help.
Over a nine-month period, roughly 294,000 Yelp reviews were screened by software that had been “trained” to look for potential cases of foodborne disease. According to 

an article posted on the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) web site, “the software flagged 893 reviews for evaluation by an epidemiologist, resulting in 

the identification of 468 reviews that were consistent with recent or potentially recent foodborne illness.”
